Benjamin Arancibia
9/26/2014
Week 5 Quiz

Reading Quiz: "Tidy Data"
1. Data Tidying is what Hadley Wickham calls structuring datasets to facilitate analysis.

2. The three properties of tidy data are: (1) each variable forms a column, (2) each observation forms a row, (3) each type of observational unit forms a table. For this question, characteristic 1 and 2 are answers.

3. The five most common problems with messy datasets, along with their remedies are as follows:
	(1) column headers are values, not variable names
	(2) multiple variables are stored in one column
	(3) variables are stored in both rows and columns
	(4) multiple types of observational unites are stored in the same table
	(5) a single observational unit is stored in multiple tables

4. Definition for the four fundamental verbs of data manipulation:
	(a) Filter - subsetting or removing observations based on some condition
	(b) Transform - adding or modifying variables. These modifications can involve either a single variable or multiple variables.
	(c) Aggregate - collapsing multiple values into a single value
	(d) Sort - changing the order of observations

5. The function in base R for filtering is subset().

Reading Quiz: "Introduction to Dplyr"
1. Dplyr has advantages and disadvantages compared to plyr. Compared to plyr, dplyr is much faster, provides a better thought out set of joins, and provides tools for working with data frames. The disadvantage of dplyr is that it doesn't pretend that you have a data frame and it doesn't provide methods for R summary functions.

2. Compared to the base R apply family of cuntions dplyr is much more consistent (functions have the same interface) and dplyr is centered around data frames. Base functions tend to be based around vectors.

Reading Quiz: "tidyr"
1. Two verbs (functions) that apply in the tidyr package that correspond to the spreadsheet functions pivot and unpivot are:
	(a) gather() is the function that corresponds to pivot
	(b) spread() is the function that coresponds to unpivot
